=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Dancer::Plugin::Auth::Basic - Basic HTTP authentication for Dancer web apps

=head1 VERSION

version 0.030

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Dancer::Plugin::Auth::Basic provides basic HTTP authentication for Dancer web
applications.

Add the plugin to your application:

    use Dancer::Plugin::Auth::Basic;

Configure the protected paths and users/passwords in the YAML configuration
file:

    plugins:
      "Auth::Basic":
        paths:
          "/restricted":
            realm: Restricted zone
            user: alice
            password: AlicesPassword
          "/secret/data":
            users:
              alice: AlicesPassword
              bob: BobsPassword

You can also call the C<auth_basic> function in a before filter:

    before sub {
        auth_basic user => 'alice', password => 'AlicesPassword';
    };

or in a route handler:

    get '/confidential' => sub {
        auth_basic realm => 'Authorized personnel only',
            users => { 'alice' => 'AlicesPassword', 'bob' => 'BobsPassword' };
        
        # Authenticated
        ...
    };

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Dancer::Plugin::Auth::Basic adds basic HTTP authentication to Dancer web
applications.

=head1 CONFIGURATION

The available configuration options are listed below.

=head2 paths

Defines one or more paths that will be protected, including sub-paths
(so if the path is C<"/restricted">, then C<"/restricted/secret/file.html"> will
also be protected). Each path can have the following parameters:

=over 4

=item * C<password>

Password (if a single user is allowed access).

=item * C<realm>

Realm name that will be displayed in the authentication dialog. Default:
C<"Restricted area">

=item * C<user>

User name (if a single user is allowed access).

=item * C<users>

A list of user names and passwords (if multiple users are allowed access).

=back

Example:

    plugins:
      "Auth::Basic":
        paths:
          "/secret":
            realm: "Top secret documents"
            user: charlie
            password: CharliesPassword
          "/documents":
            realm: "Only for Bob and Tim"
            users:
              bob: BobsPassword
              tim: TimsPassword

=head2 users

Defines top-level users and their passwords. These users can access all paths
configured using the C<paths> option.

Example:

    plugins:
      "Auth::Basic":
        users:
          fred: FredsPassword
          jim: JimsPassword

=head1 PASSWORDS

Passwords in configuration files can be written as clear text, or in any scheme
that is recognized by L<Authen::Passphrase> (either in RFC 2307 or crypt
encoding).

Example:

     plugins:
      "Auth::Basic":
        users:
          # Clear text
          tom: TomsPassword
          # MD5 hash, RFC 2307 encoding
          ben: "{MD5}X8/UHlR6EiFbFz/0f903OQ=="
          # Blowfish, crypt encoding
          ryan: "$2a$08$4DqiF8T1kUfj.nhxTj2VhuUt1ZX8L.y4aNA3PCAjWLfLEZCw8r0ei"          

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 auth_basic

This function may be called in a before filter or at the beginning of a route
handler. It checks if the client is authorized to access the requested path --
if not, it immediately returns a 401 Unauthorized response to prompt the user to
authenticate.

    auth_basic realm => 'Top secret', user => 'alice',
        password => 'AlicesPassword';

Parameters:

=over 4

=item * C<realm>

Realm name that will be displayed in the authentication dialog. Default:
C<"Restricted area">

=item * C<password>

Password (if a single user is allowed access).

=item * C<user>

User name (if a single user is allowed access).

=item * C<users>

A hash reference mapping user names to passwords (if multiple users are allowed
access).

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4



=back

* L<Authen::Passphrase>

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Inspired by Tatsuhiko Miyagawa's L<Plack::Middleware::Auth::Basic>.

Thanks to Andrew Main for the excellent L<Authen::Passphrase> module.

=for :stopwords cpan testmatrix url annocpan anno bugtracker rt cpants kwalitee diff irc mailto metadata placeholders metacpan

=head1 SUPPORT

=head2 Bugs / Feature Requests

Please report any bugs or feature requests through the issue tracker
at L<https://github.com/odyniec/p5-Dancer-Plugin-Auth-Basic/issues>.
You will be notified automatically of any progress on your issue.

=head2 Source Code

This is open source software.  The code repository is available for
public review and contribution under the terms of the license.

L<https://github.com/odyniec/p5-Dancer-Plugin-Auth-Basic>

  git clone https://github.com/odyniec/p5-Dancer-Plugin-Auth-Basic.git

=head1 AUTHOR

Michal Wojciechowski <odyniec@cpan.org>

=head1 CONTRIBUTOR

Ovid <curtis@weborama.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2011 by Michal Wojciechowski.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

